=== Brainstorming: The Library of Sanchi ===

(This came to my mind after a chat discussion about interesting characters... among them, a scholar minotaur).

The humans will never understand.

I am Nelthek, Keeper of What Shall Be Unknown. I am the seventy-third in a long line of keepers, with a history longer than most human “noble houses”. The forefathers of my forefathers built this place in this corner of the world for its own purpose, a purpose that came from a deep understanding of the mortal mind. An understanding humans apparently will never achieve.

You see, if I tell you not to think of sea serpents, your mind will inevitably be occupied with sea serpents from that moment on. It is the way the mortal mind works. In the same way, you cannot command your mind to forget. If it is something you don't want to remember, it is something that plagues your mind, and thus it will not let go willingly.

However, you can trick your mind. By storing your knowledge in a place where it can last forever, you can tell your mind to be at ease. There is no need for your mind to keep busy with something you could access at will. You can just tell it that all is well. Over time, your mind will find it less necessary to recall this knowledge, throwing it aside to make place for other things.

The reason for writing books is not to keep knowledge accessible. The reason for writing them is to keep this knowledge imprisoned on its pages.

What many must know is told from father to son.
What few must know is told from master to apprentice.
What none must know is written in a book. And then forgotten.

But the humans! How they crave for secrets that would destroy their minds by reading them alone! How they desire documents ages old, just out of curiosity, without even the slightest idea of what they might find! The gold they have offered, the threats I have heard!

Fortunately, I have learned how to withstand them. And how to drive them off. Few can stand the wrath of an enraged minotaur. We make good guardians.

And guard this place I will. For I am Nelthek, Keeper of What Shall Be Unknown.
