Sanchi and the Xafi Desert

=== Facts from the world map: ===

Sanchi is located in what looks like a somewhat remote corner of a land mass. We see mountains and a coastline, but not a bay which would give shelter to ships from the whims of the sea. We also do not see a major road.

In contrast, Vaeey is located in a more central place, at the beginning of a major road, a safe bay and close to a place called the "Toll Islands", signifying that a substantial amount of trade going on there. I think it is safe to assume that Vaeey is a by far more significant city than Sanchi, as there is no good reason for trade and thus wealth to go out of the way to Sanchi.

On the other hand, due to its closeness to the mountains, Sanchi might gain its importance, at least partially, from some deep and rich mines. Located somewhat off the path, it might also be home to a number of activities that enjoy a spot a little away from the center of attention. The end result would be a city bleaker than Vaeey, where the sunlight is not glorious but burning and throwing a lot of shadows in which a lot of things can hide unseen. Maybe it is also some kind of cage in itself, as the sandstorms (or sandworms?) that plague the north-east Xafi desert might make it impossible to leave the city on your own – you have to travel with a caravan or with a merchant ship, both of which are rare and well-controlled. But because of the mine (and whatever strange business has grown in the shadows, probably a gloomy mage academy), the city still remains sizable and important, and individuals like the ruling vizier, the local crime boss, the master mage, the slave lord and so on are quite fine with not being exposed to Vaeey's spotlights... the cake may not be as large as in Vaeey, but fewer are fighting for their shares of it. And those who rise to the top in Sanchi may not be the best of their kind, but they are definitely tough (and likely very much underestimated by their Vaeey colleagues).

=== In-game uses: ===

Game-wise, the mine might make an excellent beginner's dungeon. Maybe there's an invasion of slugs, spiders or slimes. Maybe the party is composed of mine slavers and makes escape through an unmonitored natural cavern that was by chance connected with the mine during a breakthrough. Maybe a similar breakthrough might have uncovered an ancient ritual cave which houses secrets Man Is Not Meant To Know. Or maybe all of this.

=== Brainstorming: Rough idea for the first quest ===

Considering we will probably need a hook for the party to come into contact with secret knowledge which sets the stage for later events, how's this?

A cave-in or other event in the mine has created a connection to a natural cavern system which in turn leads to the deeper levels of the Sanchi library / mage academy, but no one knows this yet. No one except for a shady guy who offers the characters – poor mine workers or even slaves – their freedom and/or a substantial amount of gold if they use this secret entrance and get document X from the library which usually is stored in the forbidden vaults deep below the main building. As to the actual end of the quest, the goals of the quest-giver, the reactions of the librarians and so on, the possibilities are virtually endless.
